The ThinLisp Lisp-to-C Translator
---------------------------------

ThinLisp is an open source Lisp to C translator for delivering commercial
quality, Lisp-based applications.  It implements a subset of Common Lisp with
extensions.  ThinLisp itself is written in Common Lisp, and so must run on top
of an underlying Common Lisp implementation such as Allegro, MCL, or CMU Lisp.
The C code resulting from a translation can then be independently compiled to
produce a small, efficient executable image.

Originally designed for real-time control applications, ThinLisp is not a
traditional Lisp environment.  It purposefully does not contain a garbage
collector.  ThinLisp produces compile time warnings for uses of inherently slow
Lisp operations, for consing operations, and for code that cannot be optimized
due to a lack of sufficient type declarations.  These warnings can be suppressed
by improving the code, or through use of lexical declarations acknowledging that
the code is only of prototype quality.  Code meeting the stringent requirements
imposed by ThinLisp cannot by sped up by rewriting it in C.

The ThinLisp home is @url{http://www.thinlisp.org/}.  The newest source
distributions of TL and this manual can be found here.  Bugs should be
reported to @email{bugs@@thinlisp.org}.

Ports
-----

The ThinLisp translator runs in a Common Lisp implementation.  It has been
tested within Allegro Lisp for Windows, CMU Lisp for Linux and FreeBSD, and
Macintosh Common Lisp.  It is intended to be able to run within any conforming
Common Lisp implementation.

The emitted C code has been tested in the past on 19 different platforms
including Windows 95/98 and Windows NT for Intel and Alpha under both Cygnus and
Visual C; UNIXes from Linux, FreeBSD, Sun, HP, IBM, SGI, Aviion, DEC UNIX, OSF,
NEC, and Motorola; and VMS for VAX and Alpha.  Though it has been some time
since those platforms have been checked, we believe that there has been little
change to the underlying C structures used, and so the generated C code should
remain extremely portable.

A previously used makefile generator system was not available for distribution
with ThinLisp, and so a new minimalist makefile generator has been built.  The
makefiles from this system have been tested on Linux, FreeBSD, and Cygwin.  If
you want makefiles for other platforms, please help extend our generator, or
else you'll have to write your makefiles by hand.

Installation
------------

Please see the INSTALL file in this directory.

--------
$Id: README,v 1.2 2001/02/22 19:00:25 jallard Exp $
